BASH.md, before:

## Bash & Command Line Tools

### 1. Clipboard tricks

#### 1.1 Mac OS X

Convert clipboard rich text (or html) to plain text (Mac OS X)

```bash
pbpaste | pbcopy
```

Remove newlines in clipboard text (Mac OS X)

```bash
pbpaste | xargs | pbcopy
```

#### 1.2 Linux

```bash
sudo apt install xclip
alias pbcopy='xclip -selection clipboard'
alias pbpaste='xclip -selection clipboard'
```

### 2. Downloading files from the command line

#### 2.1 wget

To download a file:

```bash
wget [url]
```

To resume (continue) a  previous download:

```bash
wget -c [url]  # or
wget --continue [url]
```

#### 2.2 curl

To download a file:

```bash
curl -O [url]  # or
curl -L -o 'outputfile' [url]
```

To resume (continue) a previous download:

```bash
curl -L -o 'outputfile' -C [offset] [url]
curl -L -o 'outputfile' -C - [url]
```

where `-L` is to follow redirects (HTTP 3xx status code)

#### 2.3 ssh

SSH to a remote server:

```bash
ssh hostname
ssh user@hostname
```

Running commands on a remote server:

```bash
ssh hostname "command1; command2"
ssh hostname ls -al
ssh hostname "df -h; free -h"
ssh hostname "ps aux"
ssh hostname "netstat -natp"
ssh hostname "sudo apt update && sudo apt -y upgrade"
```

Copying files from a remote server

```bash
rsync -avz hostname:filename .
```

### 3. Tools for Video

#### 3.1 ffmpeg

Video file conversion (to make the video viewable on Mac OS X / Ubuntu)

```bash
ffmpeg -i input_video.mp4 -qscale 0 -pix_fmt yuv420p output_video.mp4
```

Image series to video conversion
(if image sequence is `m01.png`, `m02.png`, ...)

```bash
ffmpeg -f image2 -i m%d.png -r [frame_rate] -b [bit_rate] -s [dimensions] video.avi
ffmpeg -f image2 -i m%d.png -sameq -vcodec mjpeg video.avi
ffmpeg -f image2 -i m%d.png -sameq video.mpeg
ffmpeg -f image2 -i m%d.png -sameq video.mp4
ffmpeg -f image2 -r 5 -i image-%04d.png -sameq -r 25 animation.mpeg
ffmpeg -f image2 -r 5 -i image-%04d.png -qscale 0 -r 25 -vcodec libx264 -pix_fmt yuv420p animation.mp4
ffmpeg -y -f image2 -i image%03d.png -q:v 0 -vcodec libx264 -pix_fmt yuv420p anim_loop.mp4
```

Video conversion to image series or gif file

```bash
ffmpeg -i animation.mp4 -r 10 output%05d.png
convert output*.png output.gif
```

Commit message:

Add head/tail, sed, cut examples

BASH.md, after:

## Bash & Command Line Tools

### 1. Clipboard tricks

#### 1.1 Mac OS X

Convert clipboard rich text (or html) to plain text (Mac OS X)

```bash
pbpaste | pbcopy
```

Remove newlines in clipboard text (Mac OS X)

```bash
pbpaste | xargs | pbcopy
```

#### 1.2 Linux

```bash
sudo apt install xclip
alias pbcopy='xclip -selection clipboard'
alias pbpaste='xclip -selection clipboard'
```

### 2. Downloading files from the command line

#### 2.1 wget

To download a file:

```bash
wget [url]
```

To resume (continue) a  previous download:

```bash
wget -c [url]  # or
wget --continue [url]
```

#### 2.2 curl

To download a file:

```bash
curl -O [url]  # or
curl -L -o 'outputfile' [url]
```

To resume (continue) a previous download:

```bash
curl -L -o 'outputfile' -C [offset] [url]
curl -L -o 'outputfile' -C - [url]
```

where `-L` is to follow redirects (HTTP 3xx status code)

#### 2.3 ssh

SSH to a remote server:

```bash
ssh hostname
ssh user@hostname
```

Running commands on a remote server:

```bash
ssh hostname "command1; command2"
ssh hostname ls -al
ssh hostname "df -h; free -h"
ssh hostname "ps aux"
ssh hostname "netstat -natp"
ssh hostname "sudo apt update && sudo apt -y upgrade"
```

Copying files from a remote server

```bash
rsync -avz hostname:filename .
```

### 3. Tools for file manipulation

#### 3.1 File viewing and slicing

```bash
head -5 file.csv           # first 5 lines of a file
sed -n '10,20p' file.csv   # lines 10-20 (inclusive) of a file
tail -5 file.csv           # last 5 lines of a file
cut -f3 -d ',' test.csv    # view 3rd column of a comma-delimited file
```

### 4. Tools for Video

#### 4.1 ffmpeg

Video file conversion (to make the video viewable on Mac OS X / Ubuntu)

```bash
ffmpeg -i input_video.mp4 -qscale 0 -pix_fmt yuv420p output_video.mp4
```

Image series to video conversion
(if image sequence is `m01.png`, `m02.png`, ...)

```bash
ffmpeg -f image2 -i m%d.png -r [frame_rate] -b [bit_rate] -s [dimensions] video.avi
ffmpeg -f image2 -i m%d.png -sameq -vcodec mjpeg video.avi
ffmpeg -f image2 -i m%d.png -sameq video.mpeg
ffmpeg -f image2 -i m%d.png -sameq video.mp4
ffmpeg -f image2 -r 5 -i image-%04d.png -sameq -r 25 animation.mpeg
ffmpeg -f image2 -r 5 -i image-%04d.png -qscale 0 -r 25 -vcodec libx264 -pix_fmt yuv420p animation.mp4
ffmpeg -y -f image2 -i image%03d.png -q:v 0 -vcodec libx264 -pix_fmt yuv420p anim_loop.mp4
```

Video conversion to image series or gif file

```bash
ffmpeg -i animation.mp4 -r 10 output%05d.png
convert output*.png output.gif
```
