README.md, before:

## [Python Snippets](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/)

### Background

This is repository serves as a quick-reference of Python code snippets that are likely to
be frequently-used.  While it is likely that many equivalent snippets would be easily found
on Google, Stack Overflow, or a Python library documentation, these snippets are written in
a preferred coding style and some of them may be designed to work together. Also, a number
of them have (or eventually will have) unit tests, which typically are not available in many
code snippets on the internet.

The other purpose of this repository is that in the process of trying to learn just a
little bit of code every day (even if it is only a single line of code), this
respository will serve as one of the places to put that code.

### Current Scope

- Python 3
- APIs
- Databases
- Machine Learning
- Remote Storage (Dropbox, Google Drive / Google Sheets)
- Remote Servers (AWS, SSH, PBS)
- [Visualization](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/plotting)
- [Web Scraping](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/cloud)

### Links Notes and Code Snippets

- [Apps](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/APPS) to write Python code on mobile devices
- [Bash & Command Line Tools](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/BASH)
- [Search](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/FIND) tips to search for files and patterns in files

Commit message:

Add git, gnu parallel & monitoring guides

README.md, after:

## [Python Snippets](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/)

### Background

This is repository serves as a quick-reference of Python code snippets that are likely to
be frequently-used.  While it is likely that many equivalent snippets would be easily found
on Google, Stack Overflow, or a Python library documentation, these snippets are written in
a preferred coding style and some of them may be designed to work together. Also, a number
of them have (or eventually will have) unit tests, which typically are not available in many
code snippets on the internet.

The other purpose of this repository is that in the process of trying to learn just a
little bit of code every day (even if it is only a single line of code), this
respository will serve as one of the places to put that code.

### Current Scope

- Python 3
- APIs
- Databases
- Machine Learning
- Remote Storage (Dropbox, Google Drive / Google Sheets)
- Remote Servers (AWS, SSH, PBS)
- [Visualization](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/plotting)
- [Web Scraping](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/cloud)

### Miscellaneous Notes, Links and Code Snippets

- [Apps](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/APPS) to write Python code on mobile devices
- [Bash & Command Line Tools](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/BASH)
- [Git](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/GIT) introduction & guide
- [GNU Parallel](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/GNU_PARALLEL) - guide to a tool for running independent scripts concurrently, leveraging on multi-core processors
- [Monitoring](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/MONITORING) - tools for profiling Python code
- [Python](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/PYTHON) - general Python tips
- [Search](https://nathanielng.github.io/python-snippets/FIND) tips to search for files and patterns in files
